the physical agility examination
consists of eight exercises which will
test for strength endurance and
coordination you perform all the
exercises while wearing a self-contained
breathing apparatus otherwise known as
an scba unit you will also be required
to wear work gloves unless specifically
instructed otherwise in the directions
of the exercise you will be allowed to
wear your own work gloves or a pair
issued by the fire department you must
successfully complete each of the eight
exercises in the order that they are
listed if you fail to successfully
complete any of the exercises then you
will have failed the agility examination
and will not be allowed to continue on
to the next exercise the pass/fail
criteria for these exercises are based
on a maximum time standard for the
completion of each exercise you must
complete each exercise within the time
allotted for that exercise exercise 1
the ladder climb you will climb a
28-foot ladder at a steady pace until
you're standing on a rung that will be
marked with tape about five rungs from
the top a shoelace will be tied to one
of the top rungs while standing on the
tape trung you will untie the shoelace
and completely remove it from the rung
and hold it out so that the proctor
below can see it once the proctor
acknowledges that the lace has been
removed you will then retie it to the
same rung using a bow knot gloves may be
removed to untie and retie the shoelace
but must be put back on before
descending the ladder as soon as the
shoelace has been retired to the proper
rung you will then climb down from the
ladder at a steady pace while performing
this exercise you will be attached to a
safety harness and rope to protect
against falling you will not receive
extra credit for climbing up or down the
ladder quickly however if you take
longer than three minutes to complete
the entire exercise or pause longer than
five seconds on any rung other than the
tape trung you will fail the exercise
and will not be allowed to complete the
remainder of the physical agility exam
exercise to Pike pole push and Pike pole
pole there are two parts to this
exercise part 1 tests for upwards
rusting ability in part to test for
downward pulling ability
first you will insert the pointed tip of
a Pike pole into a ring that is attached
to a cable with 40 pounds of weight
the proctor will give a signal to start
at which point you will be required to
start pushing the pull upwards raising
the tip of the pole to the upper marked
line on the wall you will then lower the
tip of the pole to the lower marking
making sure that the weight does not
touch the floor you must complete 13
repetitions of this exercise
successfully within 30 seconds to pass
if the ring should come off the pipe
Pole during the repetitions you will
have failed this exercise for part 2 of
this exercise you will insert the hook
end of a Pike pole onto a ring attached
to a cable with 45 pounds of weight at
the signal given by the proctor you will
begin performing downward pulls thus
raising the weight located within a tube
to the upper marked line on the tube you
will then lower the weight to the lower
marked line in the tube making sure that
the weight does not touch the floor you
will then repeat this movement
completing 50 repetitions within 90
seconds to pass the station so the ring
come off the pipe pole or should the
weight at any time touch the floor
before 50 repetitions are completed you
will have failed this exercise exercise
3 height and reach at the starting
signal you will lift a ladder off the
floor using both hands and place it onto
two brackets attached to a wall once the
latter has been hung on the wall you
will take a few steps back and clap your
hands you will then grasp the ladder
with both hands lift it off the brackets
and place the ladder back onto the floor
in its original position you will need
to perform this exercise within 30
seconds and must not lose control of the
ladder at any time in order to pass this
exercise exercise for saw pole at the
start signal you will begin pulling the
starting rope of a power saw to a
distance marked on the rope you will
need to pull the rope in this manner a
minimum of five times within a 15 second
time period to pass this exercise
exercise 5 balance beam while holding a
Halligan tool you will walk from one end
of a five and one quarter inch wide by
14 foot long wooden beam to the other
end and then turn around and walk back
to the starting position this is to be
done without touching the floor with one
or both feet during any of the exercise
if you fall off or touch the floor with
one or both feet while walking the beam
you will be
given a second opportunity to
successfully complete the exercise as
described if a second attempt is needed
you will have to start from the
beginning point on the beam if you fail
the second attempt you will have fail
the exercise and will not be allowed to
continue on exercise six hose coupling
well facing the fire engine at the stars
signal you'll pick up the hose on the
left and connect it to the correct pump
panel connection by screwing the
threaded connection until tight
you will then pick up the other hose and
attach it to the correct pump panel
connection screwing it on until tight
once the couplings are attached the
proctor will check for proper
connections if needed you shall correct
the connection once the proctor states
that both connections are okay you will
then disconnect the hose couplings
starting with the coupling on the left
and place them both back onto the floor
in their original positions
this exercise must be completed within
60 seconds to pass
exercise 7 tunnel maze crawl while
wearing a blacked out at CB a mask and
helmet at the start signal you will
crawl on your knees along the entire
length of a maze using your hands to
feel your way throughout you must not
remove the face mask or stand up at any
point while going through the maze and
you must crawl completely pass the maze
exit in order to finish you will have 75
seconds to complete the crawl through
the maze in order to pass exercise 8
hose carry dummy drag at the proctor
signal you will pick up and place on
your shoulder a folded hose pack you
will then carry the hose back up and
then back down a full flight of stairs
and place the hose pack back onto the
ground at the starting point this is to
be done without dropping or removing the
hose from your shoulder at any point
next you will proceed to an area where a
weighted dummy is lying on the floor you
will then pick the dummy up by its
underarms and drag it 40 feet across the
room and back crossing the finish
starting line for a total of eighty feet
you must complete this exercise within
90 seconds to pass good luck on the
candidate physical agility testing for
the city of tonawanda fire